Understanding Data Types

1. What type would you choose for the following “numbers”?
 - A person’s telephone number
  string

 - A person’s height
  float

 - A person’s age
  ushort

 - A person’s gender (Male, Female, Prefer Not To Answer)
  string

 - A person’s salary
  double

 - A book’s ISBN
  string

 - A book’s price
  float

 - A book’s shipping weight
  float

 - A country’s population
  uint

 - The number of stars in the universe
  ulong

 - The number of employees in each of the small or medium businesses in the United Kingdom (up to about 50,000 employees per business)
  ushort

2. What are the difference between value type and reference type variables? What is
boxing and unboxing?

Value type variables contain the actual value and are stored in the stack. 
Reference type variables store a reference in the stack that points to the actual value in the heap.

Boxing refers to converting a value type into an object.
Unboxing refers to converting an object back into a value type.

3. What is meant by the terms managed resource and unmanaged resource in .NET?

Managed resources refer to resources that are handled automatically by the garbage collector. 
Unmanaged resources refer to resources that are NOT handled by the garbage collector and must be handled by us calling Dispose().

4. Whats the purpose of Garbage Collector in .NET?

The Garbage Collector's purpose is to get rid of resources that are no longer being used and thus maintain memory space.

---------------------------------------------

Controlling Flow and Converting Types

1. What happens when you divide an int variable by 0?

You get a compiler error stating "Division by constant zero"

2. What happens when you divide a double variable by 0?

You get infinity.

3. What happens when you overflow an int variable, that is, set it to a value beyond its
range?

If the variable overflows after reaching the maximum value, it will be set to the minimum value before completing the operation
and vice versa.

4. What is the difference between x = y++; and x = ++y;?

With y++, the value of x is set to y AND THEN the value of y is incremented.
With ++y, the value of y is incremented AND THEN the value of x is set to y.

5. What is the difference between break, continue, and return when used inside a loop
statement?

Break means that the the program will now exit out of the loop.
Continue means that the current iteration has completed, but the loop will continue with the next iteration.
Return means that the program will now exit out of the loop, but will return a value in the process.

6. What are the three parts of a for statement and which of them are required?

The three parts are the initialization, the condition, and the iterator.
All three parts are optional.

7. What is the difference between the = and == operators?

The = operator sets a value to a variable.
The == operator evaluates whether a variable is equal to a value and returns a boolean value.

8. Does the following statement compile? for ( ; true; ) ;

Yes, it will compile, but it will result in an infinite loop.

9. What does the underscore _ represent in a switch expression?

The underscore represents the default keyword which matches any case.

10. What interface must an object implement to be enumerated over by using the foreach
statement?

IEnumerable
